Zak Zeldon 
Janurary 27, 2020

In his article for Nature Magazine, Blumenstock touches upon the defects of big data and its relationship, both positive and negative, with human development around the globe. Big data already has the potential to improve the livelihoods of many people as it provides researchers information that could be used to supply aid for countries in need or track widespread epidemics. Although there are many reasons why big data is necessary for helping others, it also has four pitfalls that Blumenstock unfolds. The first is “unanticipated effects” which mainly focus on the idea that big data will often empower those who are already wealthier because their data is valued more strongly. The “lack of validation” is basically the flaws that occur with new approaches of data collection; especially putting those methods to use before they are perfected. Not only is it a possible human error on the side of the creator, but also those who are being observed might scam the system, resulting in more misinformation. “Biased algorithms” is data that was collected that does not fully represent the group of people, typically because it favors those who are wealthier or have more access to technology. Finally, the “lack of regulation” is more prevalent in developing countries where there is little legislation that enforces data privacy and algorithmic transparency. In the last portion of Blumenstock’s article, he poses some solutions. For example, comparing and complimenting new methods to old ones, finding the right tools to address the concerns in developing countries instead of applying ones already fashioned for a first-world purpose, and generally work together with other organizations beyond just those working in data science. When considering the intersection of human development with data science, I fully agree with what my peers’ words in that it’s important to find an equilibrium when it a powerful tool that does impact other humans’ way of life.






